# ContactManagerProgramAssignment

<h3>Introduction</h3>

This program acts as a contact management system with full CRUD capabilites and a search feature.  I wanted to keep the controllers slimmed down and simple to understand so you will find almost all of the logic inside of the listServices file in the services folder, it's all labeled.  View models were used for almost every view so that customization is easier for future developers, I find this design makes it easier to change views later and allows for deeper customization options without having to created bloated models.  Entity Framework Core was used and I used a local Db for storage, instructions on how to duplicate this setup are listed below in the setup section.  There is minimal styling done and most of it is through the use of bootstrap 4 classes.  Enjoy! I am open to any suggestions or improvements and if I made a mistake somewhere please point it out.

<h3>Setup</h3>

To setup this program there are a couple steps you need to go through after downloading it onto your machine.  Like any new program I recommend putting it into an isolated environment so your global settings on your packages will not be changed if mine are a different version number.  As far as packages go they should be updated automatically when you build for the first time.  If you have any questions about what was used they can be found under dependencies in the packages folder inside the ContactManager project.  Next thing to tackle will be setting up your local database(of course if you have SQL server running you can connect to that as well but I used LocalDB a lightweight SQL Express instance for my development).  Open SQL Server Object Explorer and connect to your local db should look like (localdb)MSSQL, if you don't see it at first click the server with the + icon select local then MSSQLLocalDB and click connect.  Once connected create a new database and plug your database name into the clearly labeled spot in Startup.cs under configure services, for the sake of simplicity in this project I chose not to use a default connection string stored in appsettings.json and to just leave it hard coded into startup.cs.  After you're all good to go on that front it's time to generate the table in your database, in the package manager console run **Update-Database** this should create the table.    
  
